README.md, before:

<div>
<img src="https://github.com/mage-ai/assets/blob/main/mascots/mascots-shorter.jpeg?raw=true">
</div>

## Data Engineering Zoomcamp - Week 2

[Week 1 Repo](https://github.com/alangan17/DataEngineerZoomCamp2024Week1)

Welcome to DE Zoomcamp with Mage! 

Mage is an open-source, hybrid framework for transforming and integrating data. ✨

In this module, you'll learn how to use the Mage platform to author and share _magical_ data pipelines. This will all be covered in the course, but if you'd like to learn a bit more about Mage, check out our docs [here](https://docs.mage.ai/introduction/overview). 

[Get Started](https://github.com/mage-ai/mage-zoomcamp?tab=readme-ov-file#lets-get-started)
[Assistance](https://github.com/mage-ai/mage-zoomcamp?tab=readme-ov-file#assistance)

## Let's get started

This repo contains a Docker Compose template for getting started with a new Mage project. It requires Docker to be installed locally. If Docker is not installed, please follow the instructions [here](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/). 

Either:
1. If you have a repo, you can use the following command to add the Mage repo as a submodule:
```bash
git submodule add https://github.com/mage-ai/mage-zoomcamp M2-Workflow_Orchestration
``````

2. You can start by cloning the repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mage-ai/mage-zoomcamp.git mage-zoomcamp
```

Navigate to the repo:
1.
```bash
cd M2-Workflow_Orchestration
```


2. 
```bash
cd mage-data-engineering-zoomcamp
```

Rename `dev.env` to simply `.env`— this will _ensure_ the file is not committed to Git by accident, since it _will_ contain credentials in the future.
```bash
cp dev.env .env
```

Now, let's build the container

```bash
docker compose build
```

Finally, start the Docker container:

```bash
docker compose up
```

Now, navigate to http://localhost:6789 in your browser! Voila! You're ready to get started with the course. 

### What just happened?

We just initialized a new mage repository. It will be present in your project under the name `magic-zoomcamp`. If you changed the varable `PROJECT_NAME` in the `.env` file, it will be named whatever you set it to.

This repository should have the following structure:

```
.
├── mage_data
│   └── magic-zoomcamp
├── magic-zoomcamp
│   ├── __pycache__
│   ├── charts
│   ├── custom
│   ├── data_exporters
│   ├── data_loaders
│   ├── dbt
│   ├── extensions
│   ├── interactions
│   ├── pipelines
│   ├── scratchpads
│   ├── transformers
│   ├── utils
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── io_config.yaml
│   ├── metadata.yaml
│   └── requirements.txt
├── Dockerfile
├── README.md
├── dev.env
├── docker-compose.yml
└── requirements.txt
```

## Assistance

1. [Mage Docs](https://docs.mage.ai/introduction/overview): a good place to understand Mage functionality or concepts.
2. [Mage Slack](https://www.mage.ai/chat): a good place to ask questions or get help from the Mage team.
3. [DTC Zoomcamp](https://github.com/DataTalksClub/data-engineering-zoomcamp/tree/main/week_2_workflow_orchestration): a good place to get help from the community on course-specific inquireies.
4. [Mage GitHub](https://github.com/mage-ai/mage-ai): a good place to open issues or feature requests.

## 1. Test connections
Pipeline: test_io_config
It tests the connection to:
1. Postgres
2. GCP Cloud Storage (Upload the file `titantic_clean.csv` to the bucket first)
3. GCP BigQuery

## 2. API to On-Premise DB (Postgres)
Pipeline: api_to_postgres
Postgres: structured OLTP database, row oriented, relational database

## 3. API to Cloud Storage (GCS)
Pipeline: api_to_gcs

Purpose: Write Taxi data to GCS (Google Cloud Storage) in partitioned parquet format

Before partition:
![Alt text](<assets/gcs_before_partitioned.png>)

After partition:
![Alt text](<assets/gcs_after_partitioned.png>)

GCP (Google Cloud Storage): cheaper storage, unstructured data, object storage. Able to read data from data lake/ data lake house solution

Commit message:

Update pipeline descriptions and add parameterization

README.md, after:

<div>
<img src="https://github.com/mage-ai/assets/blob/main/mascots/mascots-shorter.jpeg?raw=true">
</div>

## Data Engineering Zoomcamp - Week 2

[Week 1 Repo](https://github.com/alangan17/DataEngineerZoomCamp2024Week1)

Welcome to DE Zoomcamp with Mage! 

Mage is an open-source, hybrid framework for transforming and integrating data. ✨

In this module, you'll learn how to use the Mage platform to author and share _magical_ data pipelines. This will all be covered in the course, but if you'd like to learn a bit more about Mage, check out our docs [here](https://docs.mage.ai/introduction/overview). 

[Get Started](https://github.com/mage-ai/mage-zoomcamp?tab=readme-ov-file#lets-get-started)
[Assistance](https://github.com/mage-ai/mage-zoomcamp?tab=readme-ov-file#assistance)

## Let's get started

This repo contains a Docker Compose template for getting started with a new Mage project. It requires Docker to be installed locally. If Docker is not installed, please follow the instructions [here](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/). 

Either:
1. If you have a repo, you can use the following command to add the Mage repo as a submodule:
```bash
git submodule add https://github.com/mage-ai/mage-zoomcamp M2-Workflow_Orchestration
``````

2. You can start by cloning the repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mage-ai/mage-zoomcamp.git mage-zoomcamp
```

Navigate to the repo:
1.
```bash
cd M2-Workflow_Orchestration
```


2. 
```bash
cd mage-data-engineering-zoomcamp
```

Rename `dev.env` to simply `.env`— this will _ensure_ the file is not committed to Git by accident, since it _will_ contain credentials in the future.
```bash
cp dev.env .env
```

Now, let's build the container

```bash
docker compose build
```

Finally, start the Docker container:

```bash
docker compose up
```

Now, navigate to http://localhost:6789 in your browser! Voila! You're ready to get started with the course. 

### What just happened?

We just initialized a new mage repository. It will be present in your project under the name `magic-zoomcamp`. If you changed the varable `PROJECT_NAME` in the `.env` file, it will be named whatever you set it to.

This repository should have the following structure:

```
.
├── mage_data
│   └── magic-zoomcamp
├── magic-zoomcamp
│   ├── __pycache__
│   ├── charts
│   ├── custom
│   ├── data_exporters
│   ├── data_loaders
│   ├── dbt
│   ├── extensions
│   ├── interactions
│   ├── pipelines
│   ├── scratchpads
│   ├── transformers
│   ├── utils
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── io_config.yaml
│   ├── metadata.yaml
│   └── requirements.txt
├── Dockerfile
├── README.md
├── dev.env
├── docker-compose.yml
└── requirements.txt
```

## Assistance

1. [Mage Docs](https://docs.mage.ai/introduction/overview): a good place to understand Mage functionality or concepts.
2. [Mage Slack](https://www.mage.ai/chat): a good place to ask questions or get help from the Mage team.
3. [DTC Zoomcamp](https://github.com/DataTalksClub/data-engineering-zoomcamp/tree/main/week_2_workflow_orchestration): a good place to get help from the community on course-specific inquireies.
4. [Mage GitHub](https://github.com/mage-ai/mage-ai): a good place to open issues or feature requests.

## 1. Test connections
Pipeline: test_io_config
It tests the connection to:
1. Postgres
2. GCP Cloud Storage (Upload the file `titantic_clean.csv` to the bucket first)
3. GCP BigQuery

## 2. API to On-Premise DB (Postgres)
Pipeline: api_to_postgres
Postgres: structured OLTP database, row oriented, relational database

## 3. API to Google Cloud Storage (GCS)
Pipeline: api_to_gcs

Purpose: Write Taxi data to GCS (Google Cloud Storage) in partitioned parquet format

Before partition:
![Alt text](<assets/gcs_before_partitioned.png>)

After partition:
![Alt text](<assets/gcs_after_partitioned.png>)

GCP (Google Cloud Storage): cheaper storage, unstructured data, object storage. Able to read data from data lake/ data lake house solution

## 4. GCS to BigQuery
Pipeline: gcs_to_bigquery

Purpose: Load Taxi data from GCS to BigQuery (OLAP database, column oriented)

## 5. Parametrize the pipelines
1. Extract the hardcoded values from the pipeline and put them in the `io_config.yaml` file (variables)
